tumor	full	mesh	mesh_term	summary
BLCA	Bladder Cancer	68001749	Urinary Bladder Neoplasms	"An estimated 81,190 new cases of urinary bladder cancer (62,380 men and 18,810 women) will be diagnosed in the United States in 2018 with approximately 17,240 deaths (12,520 men and 4,720 women) occurring during this same period. Bladder cancer, the sixth most common cancer in the United States, is rarely diagnosed in individuals younger than 40 years of age. Given that the median age at diagnosis is 73 years, medical comorbidities are a frequent consideration in patient management. The clinical spectrum of bladder cancer can be divided into 3 categories that differ in prognosis, management, and therapeutic aims. The first category consists of non_muscle-invasive disease, for which treatment is directed at reducing recurrences and preventing progression to a more advanced stage. The second group encompasses muscle-invasive disease. The goal of therapy is to determine whether the bladder should be removed or if it can be preserved without compromising survival, and to determine if the primary lesion can be managed independently or if patients are at high risk for distant spread requiring systemic approaches to improve the likelihood of cure. The critical concern for the third group, consisting of metastatic lesions, is how to prolong quantity and maintain quality of life. Numerous agents with different mechanisms of action have antitumor effects on this disease. The goal is how to use these agents to achieve the best possible outcome."
BRCA	Breast Cancer	68001943	Breast Neoplasms	"Breast cancer is the most frequently diagnosed cancer globally and is the leading cause of cancer-related death in women. The American Cancer Society estimates that 249,260 Americans will be diagnosed with invasive breast cancer and 40,890 will die of the disease in the United States in 2016.Historically, white women have had the highest breast cancer incidence rates among women aged 40 years and older; however, incidence rates are converging among white and African American women, particularly among women aged 50 to 59 years. Since 1991, breast cancer mortality has been declining, suggesting a benefit from the combination of early detection and more effective treatment.The etiology of the vast majority of breast cancer cases is unknown. However, numerous risk factors for the disease have been established. These risk factors include: female gender; increasing patient age; family history of breast cancer at a young age; early menarche; late menopause; older age at first live childbirth; prolonged hormone replacement therapy; previous exposure to therapeutic chest wall irradiation; benign proliferative breast disease; increased mammographic breast density; and genetic mutations such as of the BRCA1/2 genes. However, except for female gender and increasing patient age, these risk factors are associated with only a minority of breast cancers. Women with a strong family history of breast cancer should be evaluated. Women at increased risk for breast cancer (generally those with ¡Ý1.7% 5-year risk for breast cancer using the Gail model of risk assessment) may consider risk reduction strategies.Proliferative abnormalities of the breast are limited to the lobular and ductal epithelium. In both the lobular and ductal epithelium, a spectrum of proliferative abnormalities may be seen, including hyperplasia, atypical hyperplasia, in situ carcinoma, and invasive carcinoma. Approximately 85% to 90% of invasive carcinomas are ductal in origin. The invasive ductal carcinomas include unusual variants of breast cancer, such as mucinous, adenoid cystic, and tubular carcinomas, which have especially favorable natural histories."
CESC	Cervical Cancer	68002583	Uterine Cervical Neoplasms	"An estimated 13,240 new cases of carcinoma of the uterine cervix (ie, cervical cancer) will be diagnosed in the United States in 2018, and 4170 people will die of the disease. Cervical cancer rates are decreasing among women in the United States, although incidence remains high among Hispanic/Latino, Black, and Asian women. However, cervical cancer is a major world health problem for women. The global yearly incidence of cervical cancer in 2012 was 528,000; the annual death rate was 266,000. It is the fourth most common cancer in women worldwide, with 85% of cases occurring in developing countrieswhere cervical cancer is a leading cause of cancer death in women.Persistent human papillomavirus (HPV) infection is the most important factor in the development of cervical cancer. The incidence of cervical cancer appears to be related to the prevalence of HPV in the population. In countries with a high incidence of cervical cancer, the prevalence of chronic HPV is approximately 10% to 20%, whereas the prevalence in low-incidence countries is 5% to 10%. Immunization against HPV prevents infection with the types of HPV against which the vaccine is designed and, thus, is expected to prevent specific HPV cancer in women. Other epidemiologic risk factors associated with cervical cancer are a history of smoking, parity, oral contraceptive use, early age of onset of coitus, larger number of sexual partners, history of sexually transmitted disease, certain autoimmune diseases, and chronic immunosuppression. Smoking cessation should be advised in current smokers, and former smokers should continue to avoid smoking. Squamous cell carcinomas account for approximately 80% of all cervical cancers and adenocarcinoma accounts for approximately 20%. In developed countries, the substantial decline in incidence and mortality of squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix is presumed to be the result of effective screening, although racial, ethnic, and geographic disparities exist. However, adenocarcinoma of the cervix has increased over the past 3 decades, probably because cervical cytologic screening methods are less effective for adenocarcinoma. Screening methods using HPV testing may increase detection of adenocarcinoma. Vaccination with HPV vaccines may also decrease the incidence of both squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma."
COAD	Colon Cancer	68003110	Colonic Neoplasms	"Colorectal cancer is the fourth most frequently diagnosed cancer and the second leading cause of cancer death in the United States. In 2018, an estimated 95,270 new cases of colon cancer and 43,030 cases of rectal cancer will occur. During the same year, an estimated 50,630 people will die of colon and rectal cancer combined. Despite these high numbers, the incidence of colon and rectal cancers per 100,000 people decreased from 60.5 in 1976 to 46.4 in 2005. In fact, the incidence of colorectal cancer decreased at a rate of approximately 2.9% per year between 2005 and 2014. The incidence rate for colorectal cancer reported by the CDC for 2011 was 40.0 per 100,000 persons. In addition, mortality from colorectal cancer decreased by almost 35% from 1990 to 2007, and is currently down by about 50% from peak mortality rates, These improvements in incidence of and mortality from colorectal cancer are thought to be a result of cancer prevention and earlier diagnosis through screening and better treatment modalities.Despite the observed improvements in the overall colorectal cancer incidence rate, a retrospective cohort study of the SEER colorectal cancer registry found that the incidence of colorectal cancer in patients younger than 50 years has been increasing. The authors estimate that the incidence rates for colon and rectal cancers will increase by 90.0% and 124.2%, respectively, for patients 20 to 34 years by 2030. The cause of this trend is currently unknown. One review suggests that colorectal cancer that occurs in young adult patients may be clinic-pathologically and genetically different from colorectal cancer in older adults, although this has not been confirmed broadly. If cancer in this population is different, there would be a need to develop specific treatment strategies for this population."
ESCA	Esophageal Cancer	68004938	Esophageal Neoplasms	"Upper gastrointestinal (GI) tract cancers originating in the esophagus, esophagogastric junction (EGJ), and stomach constitute a major global health problem. A dramatic shift in the location of upper GI tract tumors has occurred in the United States. Changes in the histology and location of upper GI tract tumors have also been observed in some parts of Europe. In Western countries, the most common site of esophageal cancer is in the lower third of the esophagus, which often involves the EGJ.Esophageal cancer is the sixth most common cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide and is 3 to 4 times more common in men than in women. It is endemic in many parts of the world, particularly in developing nations, where it is the fifth most common cause of cancer- related deaths. In 2018, an estimated 17,290 people will be diagnosed with esophageal cancer and 15,850 people will die of this disease in the United States. The incidence of esophageal cancer represents one of the widest variations, with a 60-fold difference between high- and low-incidence regions. The highest-risk area, often referred to as the esophageal cancer belt, spans from northern Iran through the Central Asian republics and into northern China. Other high-prevalence areas include southern and eastern Africa and Northern France.Esophageal cancers are histologically classified as squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) or adenocarcinoma. SCC is the most common histology in Eastern Europe and Asia, while adenocarcinoma is most common in North America and Western Europe. Tobacco and alcohol consumption are major risk factors for SCC, whereas tobacco use is a moderate risk factor for adenocarcinoma. The risk of SCC decreases substantially after smoking cessation, whereas the risk for adenocarcinoma remains unchanged even after several years of smoking cessation. SCC has become increasingly less common in the West over recent decades, due to reductions in tobacco and alcohol use, and now accounts for <30% of all esophageal cancers in the United States and Western Europe.In contrast, the incidence of adenocarcinomas has increased in the West, likely due to rising obesity rates. Obesity and high body mass index (BMI) have been established as strong risk factors for adenocarcinoma of the esophagus. A meta-analysis of case- control and cohort studies on BMI and esophageal cancer found that individuals with a BMI e30 kg/m<sup>2</sup> had a higher relative risk (2.34, 95% CI, 1.952.81) for developing esophageal adenocarcinoma than individuals with a BMI of 25 to 30 kg/m<sup>2</sup> (1.71; 95% CI, 1.50-1.96). Obesity contributes to the development of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and Barretts esophagus, the two major underlying causes of esophageal adenocarcinoma. GERD is associated with a high BMI and is also a risk factor for Barretts esophagus, a condition in which the normal squamous epithelium of the esophagus that is damaged by GERD is replaced by a metaplastic, columnar, or glandular epithelium that is predisposed to malignancy. Patients with Barretts esophagus have a 30 to 60 times greater risk of developing adenocarcinoma of the esophagus than the general population. Age, male gender, long-standing GERD, hiatal hernia size, and the length of Barretts esophagus are strongly associated with higher grades of dysplasia. These preliminary findings warrant further prospective evaluation of predictors of risk for the development of high-grade dysplasia (HGD) and adenocarcinoma of the esophagus in patients with Barrett¡¯s esophagus. Additionally, patients with adenocarcinoma or SCC of the esophagus are also at increased risk of developing second primary cancers, such as head and neck and lung cancers.In general, SCC seems to be more sensitive to chemotherapy, radiation therapy (RT), and chemoradiation than adenocarcinoma, but long-term outcomes appear to be the same. Adenocarcinoma may be associated with a better long-term prognosis after resection than SCC; however, more concrete data are required for such an assertion."
GBM	Glioblastoma	68005909	Glioblastoma	"A malignant form of astrocytoma histologically characterized by pleomorphism of cells, nuclear atypia, microhemorrhage, and necrosis. They may arise in any region of the central nervous system, with a predilection for the cerebral hemispheres, basal ganglia, and commissural pathways. Clinical presentation most frequently occurs in the fifth or sixth decade of life with focal neurologic signs or seizures."
HNSC	Head and Neck Cancer	68006258	Head and Neck Neoplasms	Soft tissue tumors or cancer arising from the mucosal surfaces of the LIP; oral cavity; PHARYNX; LARYNX; and cervical esophagus. Other sites included are the NOSE and PARANASAL SINUSES; SALIVARY GLANDS; THYROID GLAND and PARATHYROID GLANDS; and MELANOMA and non-melanoma skin cancers of the head and neck.
KICH	Kidney Chromophobe	68002292	"Carcinoma, Renal Cell"	"An estimated 65,340 Americans will be diagnosed with renal cancer and 14,970 will die of the disease in the United States in 2018. Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) comprises approximately 3.8% of all new cancers, with a median age at diagnosis of 64 years. Approximately 90% of renal tumors are RCC, and approximately 80% of these are clear cell tumors. Other less common cell types include papillary, chromophobe, translocation, and Bellini duct (collecting duct) tumors. Medullary renal carcinoma is a variant of collecting duct renal carcinoma and was described initially as occurring in patients who are sickle-cell trait positive.Smoking and obesity are established risk factors for RCC development. Several hereditary types of RCC also exist, with von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease being the most common. VHL disease is caused by an autosomal-dominant constitutional mutation in the VHL gene that predisposes to clear cell RCC and other proliferative vascular lesions. Analysis of the SEER database indicates that renal cell cancer incidence has been rising on average 0.7% each year and death rates have been falling on average 0.9% each year from 2005 through 2014. The 5-year survival for localized cancer has increased from 88.4% (during 1992_1995) to 92.6% (during 2007_2013) and for advanced disease from 7.3% (during 1992_1995) to 11.7% (during 2007_2013). The most important prognostic determinants of 5-year survival are the tumor stage, grade, local extent of the tumor, presence of regional nodal metastases, and evidence of metastatic disease at presentation. RCC primarily metastasizes to the lung, lymph nodes, bone, liver, adrenal gland, and brain."
KIRC	Kidney Clear Cell Carcinoma	68002292	"Carcinoma, Renal Cell"	"An estimated 65,340 Americans will be diagnosed with renal cancer and 14,970 will die of the disease in the United States in 2018. Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) comprises approximately 3.8% of all new cancers, with a median age at diagnosis of 64 years. Approximately 90% of renal tumors are RCC, and approximately 80% of these are clear cell tumors. Other less common cell types include papillary, chromophobe, translocation, and Bellini duct (collecting duct) tumors. Medullary renal carcinoma is a variant of collecting duct renal carcinoma and was described initially as occurring in patients who are sickle-cell trait positive.Smoking and obesity are established risk factors for RCC development. Several hereditary types of RCC also exist, with von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease being the most common. VHL disease is caused by an autosomal-dominant constitutional mutation in the VHL gene that predisposes to clear cell RCC and other proliferative vascular lesions. Analysis of the SEER database indicates that renal cell cancer incidence has been rising on average 0.7% each year and death rates have been falling on average 0.9% each year from 2005 through 2014. The 5-year survival for localized cancer has increased from 88.4% (during 1992_1995) to 92.6% (during 2007_2013) and for advanced disease from 7.3% (during 1992_1995) to 11.7% (during 2007_2013). The most important prognostic determinants of 5-year survival are the tumor stage, grade, local extent of the tumor, presence of regional nodal metastases, and evidence of metastatic disease at presentation. RCC primarily metastasizes to the lung, lymph nodes, bone, liver, adrenal gland, and brain."
KIRP	Kidney Papillary Cell Carcinoma	68002292	"Carcinoma, Renal Cell"	"An estimated 65,340 Americans will be diagnosed with renal cancer and 14,970 will die of the disease in the United States in 2018. Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) comprises approximately 3.8% of all new cancers, with a median age at diagnosis of 64 years. Approximately 90% of renal tumors are RCC, and approximately 80% of these are clear cell tumors. Other less common cell types include papillary, chromophobe, translocation, and Bellini duct (collecting duct) tumors. Medullary renal carcinoma is a variant of collecting duct renal carcinoma and was described initially as occurring in patients who are sickle-cell trait positive.Smoking and obesity are established risk factors for RCC development. Several hereditary types of RCC also exist, with von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease being the most common. VHL disease is caused by an autosomal-dominant constitutional mutation in the VHL gene that predisposes to clear cell RCC and other proliferative vascular lesions. Analysis of the SEER database indicates that renal cell cancer incidence has been rising on average 0.7% each year and death rates have been falling on average 0.9% each year from 2005 through 2014. The 5-year survival for localized cancer has increased from 88.4% (during 1992_1995) to 92.6% (during 2007_2013) and for advanced disease from 7.3% (during 1992_1995) to 11.7% (during 2007_2013). The most important prognostic determinants of 5-year survival are the tumor stage, grade, local extent of the tumor, presence of regional nodal metastases, and evidence of metastatic disease at presentation. RCC primarily metastasizes to the lung, lymph nodes, bone, liver, adrenal gland, and brain."
LAML	Acute Myeloid Leukemia	68015470	Leukemia Myeloid Acute	"Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a heterogeneous hematologic malignancy characterized by the clonal expansion of myeloid blasts in the peripheral blood, bone marrow, and/or other tissues. It is the most common form of acute leukemia among adults and accounts for the largest number of annual deaths from leukemias in the United States.An estimated 21,380 people will be diagnosed with AML in 2017, and 10,590 patients will die of the disease. The median age of diagnosis is 67 years, with 54% of patients diagnosed at 65 years or older (and approximately a third diagnosed at e75 years of age). Thus, as the population ages, the incidence of AML, along with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), seems to be rising. Environmental factors that have long been established to increase the risks of MDS and AML include prolonged exposure to petrochemicals; solvents such as benzene; pesticides; and ionizing radiation. Equally disturbing is the increasing incidence of treatment-related MDS and AML in survivors of childhood and young adulthood cancers. The exact incidence of therapy-related MDS/AML (secondary MDS/AML) is unknown and varies depending on the types of treatment modalities used for a given primary tumor. Reports suggest that therapy-related MDS/AML may account for 5% to 20% of patients with MDS/AML.Therapy-related MDS/AML is a well-recognized consequence of cancer treatment in a proportion of patients receiving cytotoxic therapy for solid tumors or hematologic malignancies. The rate of therapy-related MDS/AML is higher among patients with certain primary tumors, including breast cancer, gynecologic cancers, and lymphomas (both non-Hodgkins lymphoma and Hodgkin lymphoma), largely owing to the more leukemogenic cytotoxic agents that are commonly used in the treatment of these tumors. The 2 well-documented categories of cytotoxic agents associated with the development of therapy-related MDS/AML are alkylating agents (eg, cyclophosphamide, melphalan) and topoisomerase inhibitors (eg, etoposide, doxorubicin, mitoxantrone). Treatment with antimetabolites, such as the purine analog fludarabine, has also been associated with therapy-related MDS/AML in patients with lymphoproliferative disorders, particularly when administered in combination with alkylating agents. Radiotherapy, especially in the context of myeloablative therapy (eg, total-body irradiation or radioimmunotherapy) given before autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) may also increase the risk for therapy-related MDS/AML. The disease course of therapy-related MDS/AML is generally progressive and may be more resistant to conventional cytotoxic therapies than de novo cases of MDS/AML. Importantly, clinical outcomes in patients with therapy-related AML have been shown to be significantly inferior (both in terms of relapse-free survival [RFS] and overall survival [OS]) compared with patients with de novo cases, except those with the therapy-related acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) subtype or the favorable-risk core binding factor (CBF) translocations. The proportion of patients with unfavorable cytogenetics tends to be higher in the population with therapy-related AML. Even among the subgroup with favorable karyotypes, those with therapy-related AML tend to do less well. "
LGG	Lower Grade Glioma	68005910	Glioma	"Benign and malignant central nervous system neoplasms derived from glial cells (i.e., astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and ependymocytes). Astrocytes may give rise to astrocytomas (ASTROCYTOMA) or glioblastoma multiforme (see GLIOBLASTOMA). Oligodendrocytes give rise to oligodendrogliomas (OLIGODENDROGLIOMA) and ependymocytes may undergo transformation to become EPENDYMOMA; CHOROID PLEXUS NEOPLASMS; or colloid cysts of the third ventricle."
LIHC	Liver Cancer	68008113	Liver Neoplasms	"An estimated 42,220 new cases of liver cancer (including intrahepatic bile duct cancers) will be diagnosed in the US during 2018, approximately three-fourths of which will be hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Liver cancer is about 3 times more common in men than in women. Liver cancer incidence has more than tripled since 1980; from 2005 to 2014, the rate increased by about 3% per year. An estimated 30,200 liver cancer deaths will
occur in 2018. The death rate for liver cancer has more than doubled, from 2.8 (per 100,000) in 1980 to 6.6 in 2015, with an increase of 2.5% per year from 2006 to 2015.

The most important risk factors for liver cancer in the US are chronic infection with hepatitis B virus (HBV) and/or hepatitis C virus (HCV), heavy alcohol consumption, obesity, diabetes, and tobacco smoking

Early-stage liver cancer can sometimes betreated successfully with surgery to remove part of the liver (few patients have sufficient healthy liver tissue for this option) or liver transplantation. Other treatment options include tumor ablation (destruction) or embolization (blocking blood flow). Fewer treatment options exist for patients diagnosed at an advanced stage. Targeted therapies and chemotherapy may be options.

The 5-year relative survival rate for patients with liver cancer is 18%. Forty-three percent of patients are diagnosed with a localized stage of disease, for which 5-year survival is 31%."
LUAD	Lung Adenocarcinoma	68008175;67538231	Lung Neoplasms;Adenocarcinoma of lung [Supplementary Concept]	"Adenocarcinoma is the most common type of lung cancer in contemporary series, accounting for approximately one-half of lung cancer cases. The increased incidence of adenocarcinoma is thought to be due to the introduction of low-tar filter cigarettes in the 1960s, although such causality is unproven. The World Health Organization (WHO) classification emphasizes that tissue specimens should be managed not only for pathologic diagnosis, but also to preserve tissue for molecular studies, which may have important treatment implications such as use of targeted therapies for certain subsets of patients. Patients with advanced lung adenocarcinoma and other non-small carcinomas not otherwise specified should have their tumors tested for the presence of a driver mutation (eg, mutated epidermal growth factor receptor, ALK translocation, and increasingly, other mutations)."
LUSC	Lung Squamous Cell Carcinoma	68008175	Lung Neoplasms	"Squamous cell carcinoma was the most frequent histologic type of lung tumor in nearly all studies done prior to the mid-1980s. Now, adenocarcinoma is more common than squamous cell carcinoma, particularly in women.

Most squamous cell carcinomas (60 to 80 percent) arise in the proximal portions of the tracheobronchial tree through a squamous metaplasia-dysplasia-carcinoma in situ sequence (squamous carcinoma in situ), although they are increasingly presenting as peripheral lesions. Central and peripheral squamous cell carcinomas may show extensive central necrosis with resulting cavitatio. A small subset of central, well differentiated squamous cell carcinomas occur as exophytic, endobronchial, papillary lesion. Patients with this unusual variant of squamous cell carcinoma typically present with persistent cough, recurrent hemoptysis, or relapsing pulmonary infections due to airway obstruction. Most patients with exophytic endobronchial squamous cell carcinoma have low-stage disease at diagnosis, with a correspondingly good prognosis; five-year survival rates are greater than 60 percent.
"
OV	Ovarian Cancer	68010051	Ovarian Neoplasms	"Epithelial ovarian cancer is the leading cause of death from gynecologic cancer in the United States and is the countrys fifth most common cause of cancer mortality in women. In 2018, it is estimated that 22,240 new diagnoses and 14,070 deaths from this neoplasm will occur in the United States; less than 40% of women with ovarian cancer are cured. Five-year survival is about 46.5%, although survival is longer for select patients with some of the LCOH. The incidence of ovarian cancer increases with age and is most prevalent in the sixth and seventh decades of life. The median age at the time of diagnosis is 63 years, and more than 70% of patients present with advanced disease.Epidemiologic studies have identified risk factors in the etiology of ovarian cancer. A 30% to 60% decreased risk for cancer is associated with younger age at first pregnancy and first birth (d 25 years), the use of oral contraceptives, and/or breastfeeding. Conversely, nulliparity or older age (>35 years) at first pregnancy and first birth confers an increased risk for ovarian cancer. Data suggest that postmenopausal hormone therapy and pelvic inflammatory disease may increase the risk for ovarian cancer. The risk for borderline epithelial tumors (also known as low malignant potential tumors) may be increased after ovarian stimulation for in vitro fertilization. Smoking is associated with an increased risk for mucinous carcinomas but a decreased risk for clear cell carcinomas. Obesity does not appear to be associated with the most aggressive types of ovarian cancer. Environmental factors have been investigated, but so far they have not been conclusively associated with the development of this neoplasm. Family history (primarily patients having 2 or more first-degree relatives with ovarian cancer)including linkage with BRCA1 and BRCA2 genotypes (hereditary breast and ovarian cancer [HBOC] syndrome) or families affected by Lynch syndrome (hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer [HNPCC] syndrome)is associated with early-onset disease. These patients account for only 15% of all women who have ovarian cancer. In women at high risk (with either BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations), risk-reducing bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (BSO) is associated with a reduced risk for breast, ovarian, Fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancers. There is a residual risk for primary peritoneal cancer after risk-reducing BSO in these women at high risk for cancer. Occult ovarian cancer is sometimes found after RRSO, thus emphasizing the need for careful pathologic review of the ovaries and tubes. The risks of surgery include injury to the bowel, bladder, ureter, and vessels.It is now generally accepted that the Fallopian tube is the origin of many serous ovarian and primary peritoneal cancers, including serous intraepithelial carcinoma of the Fallopian tube (also known as serous tubal intraepithelial carcinoma [STIC]). STIC is a precursor of high-grade serous ovarian cancer. A referral to a gynecologic oncologist/comprehensive cancer center is recommended for management of occult STIC. It is not clear whether surgical staging and/or adjuvant chemotherapy is beneficial for women with STIC.Ovarian neoplasms consist of several histopathologic entities; treatment depends on the specific tumor type. Epithelial ovarian cancer comprises the majority of malignant ovarian neoplasms (about 90%); other less common pathologic subtypes may occur such as malignant germ cell and sex-cord stromal cell tumors. "
PAAD	Pancreatic Cancer	68010190	Pancreatic Neoplasms	"During the year 2018 in the United States, an estimated 55,440 people will be diagnosed with pancreatic cancer, and approximately 43,330 people will die of the disease. Pancreatic cancer is the fourth most common cause of cancer-related death among U.S. men (after lung, prostate, and colorectal cancer) and women (after lung, breast, and colorectal cancer).  Although incidence is roughly equal in both sexes, African Americans have a higher incidence of pancreatic cancer than white Americans. Furthermore, the incidence of pancreatic cancer in the United States increased from 1999 to 2008, possibly because of the increasing prevalence of obesity, an aging population, and other unknown factors. Mortality rates have remained largely unchanged."
PCPG	Pheochromocytoma & Paraganglioma	68010673;68010235	Pheochromocytoma;Paraganglioma	"Pheochromocytoma is a usually benign, well-encapsulated, lobular, vascular tumor of chromaffin tissue of the ADRENAL MEDULLA or sympathetic paraganglia. The cardinal symptom, reflecting the increased secretion of EPINEPHRINE and NOREPINEPHRINE, is HYPERTENSION, which may be persistent or intermittent. During severe attacks, there may be HEADACHE; SWEATING, palpitation, apprehension, TREMOR; PALLOR or FLUSHING of the face, NAUSEA and VOMITING, pain in the CHEST and ABDOMEN, and paresthesias of the extremities. The incidence of malignancy is as low as 5% but the pathologic distinction between benign and malignant pheochromocytomas is not clear.Pheochromocytoma is a usually benign, well-encapsulated, lobular, vascular tumor of chromaffin tissue of the ADRENAL MEDULLA or sympathetic paraganglia. The cardinal symptom, reflecting the increased secretion of EPINEPHRINE and NOREPINEPHRINE, is HYPERTENSION, which may be persistent or intermittent. During severe attacks, there may be HEADACHE; SWEATING, palpitation, apprehension, TREMOR; PALLOR or FLUSHING of the face, NAUSEA and VOMITING, pain in the CHEST and ABDOMEN, and paresthesias of the extremities. The incidence of malignancy is as low as 5% but the pathologic distinction between benign and malignant pheochromocytomas is not clear.

Paraganglioma is a neural crest tumor usually derived from the chromoreceptor tissue of a paraganglion, such as the carotid body, or medulla of the adrenal gland (usually called a chromaffinoma or pheochromocytoma). It is more common in women than in men.
"
PRAD	Prostate Cancer	68011471	Prostatic Neoplasms	"An estimated 164,690 new cases of prostate cancer will be diagnosed in 2018, accounting for 19% of new cancer cases in men. The age-adjusted death rates from prostate cancer have declined 52% from 1989 to 2015. Researchers have estimated that prostate cancer will account for 9% of male cancer deaths in 2018. Over the past several years, the incidence of prostate cancer has declined, likely in part as a result of decreased rates of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) screening. The decreasing and comparatively low death rate suggests that increased public awareness with earlier detection and treatment has affected mortality from this prevalent cancer.Early detection can lead to overtreatment of prostate cancers that do not threaten life expectancy, which results in unnecessary side effects that impair quality of life (QOL) and increase health care expenditures. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommended against PSA testing in 2012. The incidence of metastatic disease has increased. The rate of prostate cancer mortality, which had been in decline for 2 decades, has stabilized. Prostate cancer deaths may have increased this year for the first time in recent history, from an estimated 26,730 in 2017 to 29,430 in 2018. Increases in the incidence of metastases at presentation and prostate cancer deaths may be influenced by declines in the rates of prostate cancer early detection, biopsies, diagnosis of localized prostate cancers, and radical prostatectomy that followed the 2012 USPSTF recommendations. The USPSTF released updated draft recommendations in 2017 and is working on a final recommendation statement. The draft recommendations include individualized, informed decision-making regarding prostate cancer screening in men aged 55 to 69 years. These updated recommendations may allow for a more balanced approach to prostate cancer early detection. Better use of PSA for early detection of potentially fatal prostate cancer should decrease the risk of overdetection and overtreatment AND preserve the decrease in prostate cancer mortality. "
READ	Rectal Cancer	68012004	Rectal Neoplasms	"Colorectal cancer is the fourth most frequently diagnosed cancer and the second leading cause of cancer death in the United States. In 2018, an estimated 43,030 new cases of rectal cancer will occur in the United States (25,920 cases in men; 17,110 cases in women). During the same year, it is estimated that 50,630 people will die from rectal and colon cancer combined. Despite these statistics, the incidence per 100,000 population of colon and rectal cancers decreased from 60.5 in 1976 to 46.4 in 2005. In fact, the incidence of colorectal cancer decreased at a rate of approximately 2.9% per year or greater between 2005 and 2014. The incidence rate for colorectal cancer reported by the CDC for 2011 was 40.0 per 100,000 persons. In addition, mortality from colorectal cancer decreased by almost 35% from 1990 to 2007, and is currently down by about 50% from peak mortality rates. These improvements in incidence of and mortality from colorectal cancer are thought to be a result of cancer prevention and earlier diagnoses through screening and of better treatment modalities.Despite the observed improvements in the overall colorectal cancer incidence rate, a retrospective cohort study of the SEER CRC registry found that the incidence of colorectal cancer in patients younger than 50 years has been increasing. The authors estimate that the incidence rates for colon and rectal cancers will increase by 90.0% and 124.2%, respectively, for patients 20 to 34 years by 2030. The cause of this trend is currently unknown. Colorectal cancer that occurs in young adult patients is clinicopathologically and genetically different from colorectal cancer in older adults, suggesting a need to develop specific treatment strategies for this population."
SKCM	Melanoma	68008545	Melanoma	"In 2016, an estimated 76,380 patients will be diagnosed with and about 10,130 patients will die of melanoma in the United States. However, these figures for new cases may represent a substantial underestimate, as many superficial and in situ melanomas treated in the outpatient setting are not reported. The incidence of melanoma continues to increase dramatically, at an overall rate of 33% for men and 23% women from 2002 to 2006. Melanoma is increasing in men more rapidly than any other malignancy, and in women more rapidly than any other malignancy except lung cancer. Based on data from 2009 to 2011, the lifetime risk of developing cutaneous melanoma is 1 in 34 for women and 1 in 53 for men. The median age at diagnosis is 59 years. On average, an individual loses 20.4 years of potential life as a result of melanoma mortality compared to 16.6 years for all malignancies. Risk factors for melanoma include skin type, personal history of prior melanoma, multiple clinically atypical moles or dysplastic nevi, a positive family history of melanoma, and rarely, inherited genetic mutations. Genetic counseling could be considered for individuals with a strong family history of invasive melanoma with or without pancreatic cancer. In addition to genetic factors, environmental factors including excess sun exposure and UV-based artificial tanning contribute to the development of melanoma. The interaction between genetic susceptibility and environmental exposure is illustrated in individuals with an inability to tan and fair skin that sunburns easily who have a greater risk of developing melanoma. However, melanoma can occur in any ethnic group and also in areas of the body without substantial sun exposure. As with nearly all malignancies, the outcome of melanoma depends on the stage at presentation. In the United States, it is estimated that 84% of patients with melanoma initially present with localized disease, 9% with regional disease, and 4% with distant metastatic disease. In general, the prognosis is excellent for patients who present with localized disease and primary tumors 1.0 mm or less in thickness, with 5-year survival achieved in more than 90% of patients. For patients with localized melanomas more than 1.0 mm in thickness, survival rates range from 50% to 90%, depending on tumor thickness, ulceration, and mitotic rate. The likelihood of regional nodal involvement increases with increasing tumor thickness, as well as the presence of ulceration and mitotic rate. When regional nodes are involved, survival rates are roughly halved. However, within stage III, 5-year survival rates range from 20% to 70%, depending primarily on the nodal tumor burden. Historically, long-term survival in patients with distant metastatic melanoma, taken as a whole, has been less than 10%. However, even within stage IV, some patients have a more indolent clinical course that is biologically quite distinct from most patients with advanced disease. Furthermore the impact of emerging effective systemic therapies on the survival of patients with stage IV melanoma, either at presentation or recurrence, has made long-term remission possible for a larger proportion of patients. There is increasing appreciation of the variations in specific genetic alterations among distinct clinical subtypes of melanoma. The currently described clinical subtypes of cutaneous melanoma are: non-chronic sun damage (non-CSD): melanomas on skin without chronic sun- induced damage; CSD: melanomas on skin with chronic sun-induced damage signified by the presence of marked solar elastosis; and acral: melanomas on the soles, palms, or sub-ungual sites. Melanocytes exist outside of the skin as well, and can give rise to non-cutaneous melanomas on mucosal membranes, the uveal tract of the eye, or leptomeninges. Mucosal melanomas most often occur in the head and neck sinuses and oral cavity, anorectum, vulva, and vagina, but can arise in any of the mucosal membranes lining the gastrointestinal and urogenital tracts.Different subtypes of melanoma have been found to have very different genetic profiles, some of which have different therapeutic implications. In an analysis of 102 primary melanomas, the non-CSD subtype was found to have the highest proportion of BRAF mutations (56%) compared to CSD, acral, and mucosal subtypes (6%, 21%, and 3%, respectively). On the other hand, incidence of KIT aberrations was 28%, 36%, and 39% in CSD, acral, and mucosal subtypes, respectively, but 0% in non-CSD subtypes. NRAS mutations were found in 5% to 20% of the subtypes.Mucosal and uveal melanomas differ significantly from cutaneous melanoma in presentation, genetic profile, staging, response to treatment, and patterns of progression. Ideally, mucosal and uveal melanoma should be treated as diseases distinct from cutaneous melanoma, with care tailored to the individual."
STAD	Stomach Cancer	68013274	Stomach Neoplasms	"Upper gastrointestinal (GI) tract cancers originating in the esophagus, esophagogastric junction (EGJ), and stomach constitute a major global health problem. A dramatic shift in the location of upper GI tract tumors has occurred in the United States. Changes in the histology and location of upper GI tract tumors have also been observed in some parts of Europe. In Western countries, the proximal lesser curvature, cardia, and EGJ are the most common sites of gastric cancer.Gastric cancer is one of the least common cancers diagnosed in North America. In contrast, it is rampant in many parts of the world, including Asia. Gastric cancer is the most common type of cancer diagnosed in Japanese men and China has the highest number of newly diagnosed gastric adenocarcinoma patients in the world. Globally, gastric cancer is the fifth most frequently diagnosed cancer and the third leading cause of cancer-related deaths. In 2018, an estimated 26,240 people are likely to be diagnosed and 10,800 people will die of this disease in the United States. In developed countries, the incidence of gastric cancer originating from the cardia follows the distribution of esophageal cancer. Non-cardia gastric cancer shows marked geographic variation with countries such as Japan, Korea, China, Taiwan, Mongolia, Costa Rica, Peru, Brazil, Chile, and the former Soviet Union reporting high rates. In contrast to the incidence trends in the West, non-proximal tumors continue to predominate in Japan and other parts of the world. The etiology of this shift mainly remains elusive and may be multifactorial.Gastric cancer is often diagnosed at an advanced stage. In Japan (and in a limited fashion in Korea), where screening is performed widely, early detection is often possible. In other parts of the world, it continues to pose a major challenge for health care professionals. Environmental risk factors include Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection, smoking, high salt intake, and other dietary factors. In a meta-analysis, there was no appreciable association between moderate alcohol consumption and gastric cancer risk; however, there was a positive association with heavy alcohol use, particularly for non-cardia gastric cancers."
THCA	Thyroid Cancer	68013964	Thyroid Neoplasms	"Thyroid nodules are approximately 4 times more common in women than in men. Palpable nodules increase in frequency throughout life, reaching a prevalence of about 5% in the U.S. population for individuals ages 50 years and older. Nodules are even more prevalent when the thyroid gland is examined at autopsy or surgery, or when using ultrasonography; 50% of the thyroids studied have nodules, which are almost always benign. New nodules develop at a rate of about 0.1% per year, beginning in early life, but they develop at a much higher rate (approximately 2% per year) after exposure to head and neck irradiation.By contrast, thyroid carcinoma is uncommon. For the U.S. population, the lifetime risk of being diagnosed with thyroid carcinoma is 1.2%. It is estimated that approximately 56,870 new cases of thyroid carcinoma will be diagnosed in the United States in 2017. As with thyroid nodules, thyroid carcinoma occurs 2 to 3 times more often in women than in men. Thyroid carcinoma is currently the fifth most common malignancy diagnosed in women. The disease is also diagnosed more often in white North Americans than in African Americans. Although thyroid carcinoma can occur at any age, the peak incidence is approximately age 50 years.The main histologic types of thyroid carcinoma are: 1) differentiated (including papillary, follicular, and Hürthle cell); 2) medullary; and 3) anaplastic, which is an aggressive undifferentiated tumor. An average of 63,229 patients per year were diagnosed with thyroid carcinoma from 2010 to 2014. Of these 63,229 patients, 89.4% had papillary carcinoma, 4.6% had follicular carcinoma, 2.0% had Hürthle cell carcinoma, 1.7% had medullary carcinoma, and 0.8% had anaplastic carcinoma. The 5-year relative survival rates for patients with papillary and follicular carcinomas (stages IIII) were 98% and 90%, respectively.In 2017, it is estimated that approximately 2010 cancer deaths will occur among persons with thyroid carcinoma in the United States. Anaplastic carcinoma is almost uniformly lethal; however, most thyroid carcinoma deaths are from papillary, follicular, and Hürthle cell carcinomas, which account for nearly 95% of all thyroid carcinoma cases. Thyroid carcinoma occurs more often in women; however, mortality rates are lower for younger women. Although the estimated incidence of thyroid carcinoma previously in increased by an average of ~5% annually between 2004 and 2013, the incidence rate has recently stabilized, likely due to more conservative indications for thyroid biopsy. Because overall mortality has not dramatically increased since 1975 (1150 vs. 2010 deaths), the previous increase in incidence may reflect, at least in part, earlier detection of subclinical disease (ie, small papillary carcinomas). However, data show the incidence has increased by varying degrees across all tumor sizes and age groups. The stable age- and gender-adjusted mortality rate for thyroid carcinoma contrasts distinctly with the declining rates for other solid tumors in adults."
UCEC	Endometrioid Cancer	68016889	Endometrial Neoplasms	"Adenocarcinoma of the endometrium (also known as endometrial cancer, or more broadly as uterine cancer or carcinoma of the uterine corpus) is the most common malignancy of the female genital tract in the United States. It is estimated that 61,380 new uterine cancer cases will occur in 2017, with 10,920 deaths resulting from the disease. Stromal or mesenchymal sarcomas are uncommon subtypes accounting for approximately 3% of all uterine cancers.  Risk factors for uterine neoplasms include increased levels of estrogen (caused by obesity, diabetes, and high-fat diet), early age at menarche, nulliparity, late age at menopause, Lynch syndrome, older age (e55 years), and tamoxifen use. Thus, the incidence of endometrial cancer is increasing because of increased life expectancy and obesity. For patients with known or suspected uterine neoplasms, the initial preoperative evaluation/workup for known or suspected malignancy includes a history and physical examination, expert pathology review with additional endometrial biopsy as indicated, imaging, consideration of genetic evaluation, and other studies. Preoperative imaging and biopsy may help to identify uterine sarcomas, although biopsy sensitivity is less than that for endometrial cancer. An expert pathology review will determine whether a patient has a malignant epithelial tumor or a stromal/malignant mesenchymal tumor. Epithelial tumor types include pure endometrioid cancer, uterine serous carcinoma, clear cell carcinoma, carcinosarcoma (also known as malignant mixed Mllerian tumor [MMMT]), and undifferentiated/dedifferentiated carcinoma. Stromal or mesenchymal tumor types (interchangeable terms) include uuterine leiomyosarcoma (uLMS), endometrial stromal sarcoma (ESS), undifferentiated uterine sarcoma (UUS, previously called high-grade undifferentiated endometrial sarcoma), adenosarcoma, and perivascular epithelioid cell neoplasm (PEComa). Given the typical age group at risk for uterine neoplasms (ie, e55 years) and the presence of comorbid illnesses in older patients, it is prudent in selected patients to also measure renal and liver function.Most endometrial cancer is caused by sporadic mutations. However, genetic mutations cause endometrial cancer in about 5% of patients, which occurs 10 to 20 years before sporadic cancer. Screening for genetic mutations (eg, Lynch syndrome/hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer) should be considered in all patients with endometrial (and colorectal) cancer but especially in those younger than 50 years of age. Genetic testing and counseling should be considered for patients younger than 50 years of age with endometrial cancer and those with a significant family history of endometrial and/or colorectal cancer. If these patients have Lynch syndrome, they are at greater risk for a second cancer (eg, colorectal cancer, ovarian cancer). In addition, their relatives may have Lynch syndrome. In 2017, 67% of patients with adenocarcinoma of the endometrium were diagnosed with disease confined to the uterus at diagnosis. Regional and distant disease comprised 21% and 8% of cases, respectively. Many physicians believe that adenocarcinoma of the endometrium is a more treatable malignancy because the early symptoms of irregular vaginal bleeding (in this predominantly postmenopausal patient population) often trigger patients to seek care when the disease is at an early and treatable stage. However, data show that the mortality rate for uterine cancer has increased more rapidly than the incidence rate. This increased mortality may be related to an increased rate of advanced-stage cancers, high-risk histologies (eg, serous carcinomas), and patients being diagnosed at an older age. Analysis of SEER data suggests that survival is increased in patients who are younger, have early-stage disease, and have lower-grade disease. In addition to grade and depth of myometrial invasion, other risk factors associated with poor prognosis include age, lymph node status, tumor size, lymphovascular space invasion (LVSI), and tumor involvement of the lower uterine segment. To further improve outcome for patients with this disease, physicians need to identify high-risk patients and to tailor treatment appropriately to provide the best long-term survival. The panel suggests that gynecologic oncologists be involved in the primary management of all patients with endometrial cancer. "
UCS	Uterine Carcinosarcoma	68014594	Uterine Neoplasms	"Uterine carcinosarcomas, and undifferentiated/dedifferentiated carcinomas are considered more aggressive histologic variants of malignant epithelial tumors, with a higher incidence of extrauterine disease at presentation. Carcinosarcomas are aggressive tumors that are staged as high-grade endometrial cancer. Pathologists now believe that carcinosarcomas (also known as MMMTs) are metaplastic carcinomas and not uterine sarcomas; therefore. Even patients with apparent early-stage disease may have distant metastases. Thus, fertility-sparing therapy is not recommended for these aggressive tumors. If done, SLN mapping should proceed with particular caution.Patients with uterine serous carcinoma, clear cell carcinoma, carcinosarcoma, or undifferentiated/dedifferentiated carcinomas may present with pelvic masses, abnormal cervical cytology, or ascites in addition to postmenopausal bleeding. Both the NCCN panel and the SGO recommend that CA-125 and MRI or chest/abdominal/pelvic CT may be useful before surgery to assess if extrauterine disease is present; PET may also be useful. Patterns of failure often mimic those of ovarian cancer. "
